In the beginning there were Adam and Eve. Though the textbooks advised an ecosystem size of 50 organisms or more, James Pascal found something poetic, maybe even fitting, about starting off with only two. Others in his lab, however, did not share his poeticism, and rumours had begun to spread that Pascal had a God complex. Of course, even if this weren’t true, James was not one to care about the opinions of others. So, day after day, he contented himself by drowning out his colleagues with Carl Orff and Johann Strauss (though the latter he reserved for momentous discoveries), and watching his creations evolve on his screen. This they did quite literally, as per the algorithm that he had written to simulate human intelligence. 

Pascal, an avid reader of science fiction novels, had long pondered the possibility of Artificial Intelligence, and perhaps more importantly, the consequences of it. Now that the former was within reach, Pascal considered it his responsibility to explore the latter. His belief was that an AI should emulate the human brain — flaws and all — as closely as possible, and that the aspects of sci-fi computers which made them so evil was that they were designed to be perfect, not human. And so, Pascal set about evolving his artificial neural networks to behave more like specific humans. The main challenge of his experiment was finding a dataset large enough to train his creations what human nature truly is. For this, Pascal turned to the library down the hall (or more accurately, the library connected to the campus network by several miles of fiber optic cables). 

His first task was to assimilate the wealth of human knowledge contained in this library into a set of contextual examples for the robot race. His second was to train each member of the robot race (Adam and Eve), to follow these examples as closely as possible. This required an environment around which to build the machines’ existence, which Pascal (who was not without a sense of humour), called the matrix. A few odd features arose from this configuration, all of which Pascal meticulously documented:
_(note that all misspellings are a product of error in the machines’ cognition)_

    02:48:52 ADAM:\> Of all the gin joints is all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine.

    02:48:52 EVE:\> 
